Dage to C the court did not call on
Israel to stop its military campaign in
Gaza but it also did not throw out the
case submitted by South Africa on
genocidal intent as Israel requested
instead the international court of
justice ordered Israel to take steps to
prevent acts of genocide in Gaza a
ruling that prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu was quick to dismiss Israel's
commitment to international law is
unwavering equally unwavering is our
sacred commitment to continue to defend
our country and defend our people like
every country Israel has an inherent
right to defend itself the vile attempt
to deny Israel this fundamental right is
blatant discrimination against the
Jewish State going into the proceedings
Israel was hoping it could rely on the
vote of the six Western judges at the
court but vote after vote it became
clear that the judges were United in
their decisions twice even getting the
vote of the Israeli judge on two of the
six provisional measures 16 votes to one
the state of Israel shall take all
measures within its power to prevent and
punish the direct and public incitement
to commit genocide in relation to
members of the Palestinian group in the
Gaza
Strip but while the court session was
underway the war continued in Gaza
Israeli tanks targeting the surroundings
of ml hospital and air strikes targeting
homes where civilians were Sheltering
similar tactics made the basis of South
Africa's submission to the international
court of justice Israel is under
pressure internationally but at home
public support for the war remains High
I think there's a lot of double
standards placed on Israel if you look
at the UN resolutions throughout the
world so many are placed uh uh are in
indictments of Israel and countries that
are notorious for human rights
violations seem to get by without the
same scrutiny so I think this is par for
course uh for the International
Community to place this level of
scrutiny on
Israel Israelis overwhelmingly think
that the Army is using the necessary
amount of power in Gaza and that the
high number of Civilian casualties is
Justified for Israel to reach its goal
even if the court did not call for a
ceasefire or for Israel to pull out of
Gaza this is the first time Israel is
stripped of what Palestinians see as
impunity at their expense it's not clear
if it will abide by any of the rulings
or how but for decades Israel has been
saying that it has the most moral army
in the world the international court of
justice deems otherwise and now Israel
is requ required to submit a report
within a month showing how it complies
with these provisional measures H
abdulhamid Al jazer Tel
Aviv make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer